Potential enables all code to fire
so at the minimum potential allows the code
that moves an object to fire

It takes potential to move between different subgroups
space is a collection of subgroups so it takes potential
to move through space

Also, the greater the differance of flavors between subgroups
the more potential it takes. Small differences in flavors
do not directly effect the potential needed, but the largest
differences require an enormous potential

Barriers or membranes are flavor differences between subgroups
Enough potential can overcome these.

When there is a flavor transfer, the potential is taken from the
shaped code in the container moving based on the most easiest
shed bonded potential.
So need to look at how potential is transfered again for more details.

Eventually, the more less easily shed potential needs work to release its
potential so reach a method of diminishing returns.

work is the ability to transfer bonded potential
and some code more tightly holds onto its potential than others

PUSHING and PULLING
Pushing and pulling can only occur when an item moves through a space.
when something outside the subgroup or even shaped provides the force
to move it.
This all boils down to whether the potential to move the item to another subgroup
comes from the inside or the outside of the item.
and this is difined on how the command to move is done. Cocode will
attach to the subgroup or the shaped (but never to a space) and there is
an instruction to move that is fired in the co-code or in the code of the item
If the instruction is in the co-code this is an outside force, else if in
the code of the object this is an inside force. The potential comes from
the item that houses the code in question.
Pushing and pulling are only different in the relative directions of the force
applied, and really has nothing to do with the avove direction as its only
a matter of semantics.
Holding something in place is when one movement to a subgroup is
countered, or can be countered by another movement. The force expanded
to move each way is compared, and the greater force moves, if there is enough
in the difference between the two forces to overcome the potential barrier between
subgroups.

Stickiness, and Texture is how much holding there is between items.
